content/posts/quickguide-hugo.md, before:

---
title: "Quickguide - Hugo | Git | Netlify setup"
date: 2021-02-16T11:50:27+01:00
tags: [Hugo, Git, Netlify]
featured_image: ""
description: "This is a simple guide/cheatsheet with all the steps and commands to take you from nothing to a FREE published website with Hugo, GitHub and Netlify!"
draft: false
---

This guide assumes that you already have bought a domain for your website (I recommend [Porkbun](https://porkbun.com/products/domains)). The domain cost is the only cost needed, the rest in this guide are completely **FREE** tools in order to create, host and publish your website!

---

## Hugo installation

There are many ways to install Hugo described under the [Hugo installation documentation](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing)

My preferred method to install Hugo is on Linux with snaps:
```
snap install hugo
```

Verify the installation and check the version:
```
hugo version
```

### New Hugo site

Now, navigate to the folder where you want Hugo to create your website's folder. For example in `/webdev/sites`
```
hugo new site mywebsite
```

This will create a new folder for your website with the hugo structure in it `/webdev/sites/mywebsite`

### Add a Hugo theme

[Find a Hugo theme](https://themes.gohugo.io) you like and add it to your themes folder. I chose here the [PaperMod theme](https://themes.gohugo.io/hugo-papermod/) ([PaperMod installation documentation](https://github.com/adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod/wiki/Installation))

```
git submodule add https://github.com/adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod.git themes/PaperMod --depth=1
git submodule update --init --recursive # needed when you reclone your repo (submodules may not get cloned automatically)
```

Update the theme when needed with:

```
git submodule update --remote --merge
```

---

## Start Git and connect with GitHub

### Git installation

This will assume an operating system based on Ubuntu linux. For other operating systems check the [Git download page](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

First, let's check if Git is already installed and what version it is:
```
git --version
```

[Git version 2.28](https://github.blog/2020-07-27-highlights-from-git-2-28/) brought many updates including the possibility to change the default branch to something different than just `master`. This is important in order to align with the [GitHub's change in default branch name](https://github.com/github/renaming) from `master` to `main`. 

So, if you don't have Git or you have a version older than 2.28 then install the latest version of Git:

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:git-core/ppa
sudo apt update
sudo apt install git
```

### Git configuration

Set your name and email in Git:
```
git config --global user.name "My Name"
git config --global user.email "myname@email.com"
```

And now we can set Git to initialize by default with the branch `main` and thus align with GitHub as mentioned earlier:
```
git config --global init.defaultBranch main
```

We can also enable colors in Git with:
```
git config --global color.ui auto
```

Lastly, verify that your name and email is properly added in the new configuration:
```
git config --get user.name
git config --get user.email
```

### Connect Git with GitHub

Firstly, create a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

- Create a new repository on GitHub, or

- Create a new repository on the command line and push to GitHub, or
```
echo "# myRepository" >> README.md
git init
git add README.md
git commit -m "first commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin git@github.com:al3xisxyz/myRepository.git
git push -u origin main
```

- Push an existing repository from the command line
```
git remote add origin git@github.com:al3xisxyz/myRepository.git
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main
```

Commit message:

Edit how to connect with GitHub

content/posts/quickguide-hugo.md, after:

---
title: "Quickguide - Hugo | Git | Netlify setup"
date: 2021-02-16T11:50:27+01:00
tags: [Hugo, Git, Netlify]
featured_image: ""
description: "This is a simple guide/cheatsheet with all the steps and commands to take you from nothing to a FREE published website with Hugo, GitHub and Netlify!"
draft: false
---

This guide assumes that you already have bought a domain for your website (I recommend [Porkbun](https://porkbun.com/products/domains)). The domain cost is the only cost needed, the rest in this guide are completely **FREE** tools in order to create, host and publish your website!

---

## Hugo installation

There are many ways to install Hugo described under the [Hugo installation documentation](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing)

My preferred method to install Hugo is on Linux with snaps:
```
snap install hugo
```

Verify the installation and check the version:
```
hugo version
```

### New Hugo site

Now, navigate to the folder where you want Hugo to create your website's folder. For example in `/webdev/sites`
```
hugo new site mywebsite
```

This will create a new folder for your website with the hugo structure in it `/webdev/sites/mywebsite`

### Add a Hugo theme

[Find a Hugo theme](https://themes.gohugo.io) you like and add it to your themes folder. I chose here the [PaperMod theme](https://themes.gohugo.io/hugo-papermod/) ([PaperMod installation documentation](https://github.com/adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod/wiki/Installation))

```
git submodule add https://github.com/adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod.git themes/PaperMod --depth=1
git submodule update --init --recursive # needed when you reclone your repo (submodules may not get cloned automatically)
```

Update the theme when needed with:

```
git submodule update --remote --merge
```

---

## Start Git and connect with GitHub

### Git installation

This will assume an operating system based on Ubuntu linux. For other operating systems check the [Git download page](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

First, let's check if Git is already installed and what version it is:
```
git --version
```

[Git version 2.28](https://github.blog/2020-07-27-highlights-from-git-2-28/) brought many updates including the possibility to change the default branch to something different than just `master`. This is important in order to align with the [GitHub's change in default branch name](https://github.com/github/renaming) from `master` to `main`. 

So, if you don't have Git or you have a version older than 2.28 then install the latest version of Git:

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:git-core/ppa
sudo apt update
sudo apt install git
```

### Git configuration

Set your name and email in Git:
```
git config --global user.name "My Name"
git config --global user.email "myname@email.com"
```

And now we can set Git to initialize by default with the branch `main` and thus align with GitHub as mentioned earlier:
```
git config --global init.defaultBranch main
```

We can also enable colors in Git with:
```
git config --global color.ui auto
```

Lastly, verify that your name and email is properly added in the new configuration:
```
git config --get user.name
git config --get user.email
```

### Connect Git with GitHub

Firstly, create a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

Then you can start working on a repository by choosing one of the three options below.

- Create a new repository on GitHub and clone it locally so you can start developing it:
```
git clone git@github.com:al3xisxyz/myRepository.git
```

- Create a new repository on the command line and push it to GitHub:
```
echo "# myRepository" >> README.md
git init
git add README.md
git commit -m "first commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin git@github.com:al3xisxyz/myRepository.git
git push -u origin main
```

- Push an existing repository on your local machine from the command line:
```
git remote add origin git@github.com:al3xisxyz/myRepository.git
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main
```
